Skybre ISP Platform — cumulative build
======================================

Build:  43
Date:   2026-08-28
Zip:    skybre-build43-2026-08-28.zip
Files:  197
Migrations: 11  (inventory 0004 0005 0006 · customers 0008 0009 ·
            billing 0013 0014 0015 0016 · payroll 0006 · notifications 0008)
            — build 16 added radiusauth 0008 (RadiusAction).
            — build 43 adds NO migrations.
            — build 42 added no migrations.
            — build 41 added no migrations.
            — build 40 added no migrations.
            — build 39 added no migrations (safety fixes to build 38's
              scheduled job — deploy this INSTEAD of 38, not after it).
            — build 38 added radiusauth 0011 (speed windows) and
              billing 0018 (fair-use fields). NOTHING CHANGES for any
              customer until a threshold or a window is configured.
            — build 37 added no migrations.
            — build 36 added fleet 0004 (a vehicle being at the workshop).
            — build 35 added billing 0017 (access device on a service).
              Needs NO extra step; deploy/enable_apps.py is still required
              for 33/34 if those have not gone out.
            — build 34 added sales 0001 (leads) and accounts 0007 (the new
              "sales" permission section), AND needs deploy/enable_apps.py
              run once BEFORE migrating — neither new app is in settings.py
              until that script puts it there. That one script now enables
              BOTH the audit app (33) and the sales app (34), so running it
              covers whichever of the two has not gone out yet.
            — build 33 added audit 0001 (the activity log table).
            — build 32 added no migrations.
            — build 31 added no migrations.
            — build 30 added customers 0013 (Bad Debt status).
            — builds 28 and 29 added no migrations.
            — build 27 added network 0008 (site partners, WITH a data copy).
            — builds 24 to 26 added no migrations.
            — build 23 added customers 0011 + 0012.
            — build 22 added radiusauth 0010 + customers 0010.
            — build 21 added radiusauth 0009 (UsageBucket).
            — builds 17 to 20 added no migrations.
            — builds 13, 14 and 15 added no migrations.

This zip is CUMULATIVE. It contains every change since the last deployment,
including the five features that were previously delivered as separate zips
(stock VAT, customer reference, blocking dashboard, Conecto, invoice layout).
Deploy this one; the older zips are superseded.

What's in build 43 — "Sync shaper queues" is where you'd look for it
---------------------------------------------------------------------
  - The button now sits on the DEVICE PAGE, next to Test Connection and
    Poll Now. It lived in a modal on the Networking list, and the only
    thing pointing at it was a line of hint text on the device page
    telling you to go and find it -- so you had to already know where it
    was in order to find it.
  - Shown only when that router's Shaper is actually on. With it off the
    button's only effect is to REMOVE the managed queues, which is not
    what anybody clicking "sync" is expecting.
  - Reports what it did: how many queues were pushed, or that the router
    could not be reached.
  - Carries build 42 (--seed overwrites unconditionally) so this is one
    deploy, not two.

What's in build 42 — --seed could not fix what it was built to fix
-------------------------------------------------------------------
  - The "already correct" check ran BEFORE the seed branch, so --seed
    skipped exactly the rows that needed re-seeding: one already holding
    the wrong value (the boosted rate, written by build 40's seeding bug)
    matches the target exactly, so it was skipped and never corrected.
    Re-seeding reported success and changed nothing.
  - The only way out was editing the database by hand, which is not a
    thing a recovery command should require.
  - Seeding now runs FIRST and UNCONDITIONALLY, overwriting whatever is
    there. That is what "establish the baseline" has to mean; making it
    conditional on the value being wrong in a way it cannot detect was the
    whole error.
  - Consequence worth knowing: `--seed` twice in a row now reports the
    same count both times rather than 0 the second time. It is idempotent
    in effect, not in its counter.

What's in build 41 — two reasons the burst never arrived
---------------------------------------------------------
  Both found by reading a live diagnostic dump, and both silent: the
  platform reported success at every step while the customer stayed at
  their plan speed.

  1. --seed RECORDED THE BOOSTED RATE. Seeding is meant to write down what
     the ROUTER currently has, so the first real run only pushes genuine
     changes. It wrote down what the POLICY WANTED instead. Seed inside an
     open window and it recorded the doubled figure as though it had
     already been delivered -- the next run then saw "already correct",
     no CoA was ever sent, and the burst never happened. It now records
     the plain plan speed, which is what the router was handed at login.
  2. THE STATIC QUEUES WERE NEVER RE-PUSHED. Build 40 taught the shaper's
     speed CALCULATION about windows and fair use, but nothing re-ran it:
     sync_device_shaper_queues is only called from the device page's own
     button. So on a shaper-enabled device the static simple queue sat at
     the plan speed while the CoA moved the dynamic one, and the customer
     got the more restrictive of the two -- their plan speed. The
     scheduled run now re-syncs the shaper on any affected device right
     after pushing, and reports (without failing the run) if that cannot
     be reached.

  Together these two meant the whole feature was inert on a device with
  the shaper on -- which is the normal configuration here.

What's in build 40 — the shaper ignored the speed policy
---------------------------------------------------------
  - FIXED: a burst could be sent, accepted by the router, and never felt
    by the customer, with nothing on any screen looking wrong.
  - There are TWO queues in play on a Mikrotik. Mikrotik-Rate-Limit from
    RADIUS builds a DYNAMIC queue for the PPPoE session. Separately, when
    a device has the Shaper toggle on, this platform pushes a STATIC
    simple queue for each service. The customer gets the more restrictive
    of the two.
  - network.router_sync.effective_speed_kbps still read the raw plan
    speed, so the shaper held a 4 Mbps static queue against a line RADIUS
    had just burst to 8 Mbps. The boost went out, the router accepted it,
    the RadiusAction row said success, and the customer stayed at 4.
  - It now goes through radiusauth.speeds like everything else that
    decides a speed -- which is what that module's docstring already
    claimed, and this was the one caller not honouring it. There is a test
    asserting the shaper and the RADIUS rate-limit string agree exactly.
  - A tariff with no speed configured is still skipped rather than being
    given the fallback default, so services that deliberately have no
    queue still get none.
  - Only relevant if a device has Shaper enabled (Networking → the device).
    With it off, RADIUS was always the only thing setting the speed.

What's in build 39 — three safety fixes to the speed-policy job
----------------------------------------------------------------
  Build 38's scheduled run was correct but unguarded. It fires for EVERY
  connected customer at a window boundary, which makes each of its failure
  modes network-wide by construction. Found by reading the first live dry
  run, before it had ever been committed.

  1. IT COULD HAVE DISCONNECTED THE ENTIRE CUSTOMER BASE. When CoA cannot
     be delivered, apply_change's fallback is to DROP the session so it
     reconnects on the new settings. That is a fair trade for a change
     somebody just made and is watching for. It is not a fair trade here:
     one network-wide CoA failure — a wrong shared secret, UDP 3799
     blocked — would have dropped every online customer at 22:00 in order
     to deliver an off-peak boost nobody asked for. apply_change now takes
     allow_disconnect_fallback, and the scheduled job passes False: if CoA
     fails, the line keeps its current speed until it next reconnects, and
     the failure is recorded.
  2. --seed. last_pushed_rate_limit is blank until something is pushed, so
     on a fresh database EVERY line reads as changed and the first commit
     would try to CoA the whole book at once. `--seed` records what each
     line should be running at WITHOUT contacting any router, so the first
     real run only pushes genuine changes.
  3. --limit (default 50) and a lock. Any run wanting to touch hundreds of
     lines at once is a mistake — a misconfigured window, or an unseeded
     database — so the cap turns "the whole network at once" into "fifty,
     then look at the log". The advisory lock stops a slow run and the
     next cron tick from running over each other.

What's in build 38 — FAIR USE and time-of-day bursting
--------------------------------------------------------
  - SPEED WINDOWS: hours when lines run faster than their plan. The point
    is load, not generosity -- evenings are full and small hours are
    empty, so speed given away at 02:00 costs nothing that is being used
    and moves the big downloads off the times everyone else is working.
  - The boost is a PERCENT OF THE PLAN, not an absolute speed, so one
    window covers every tariff: 200% doubles a 10 Mbps line and a 50 Mbps
    line without either needing its own row. Screens show what that works
    out to in Mbps, because a percentage is not a number anyone can quote
    down the phone.
  - Windows can run THROUGH MIDNIGHT (22:00–06:00), which is the shape
    almost every off-peak window actually has, and which a naive
    start-to-end comparison silently turns into the empty set. Optional
    per weekday, and "Friday night" correctly still covers 01:00 Saturday.
  - FAIR USE: a threshold in GB per month, past which a line is SLOWED to
    a percentage of its plan speed. Not cut off.
  - Fair use is deliberately SEPARATE from the existing Data cap field and
    is not a rename of it. A cap is a bundle somebody bought and can run
    out of; fair use is a threshold on an UNCAPPED plan. The cap is also
    what the CUSTOMER sees on their own usage page -- so shaping through
    it would have shown people a cap on a plan sold to them as uncapped.
  - OFF-PEAK TRAFFIC DOES NOT COUNT toward fair use by default. A window
    whose traffic still counts gives nobody any reason to move their
    downloads into it, which is the entire purpose of running one. Can be
    switched on per window.
  - THE WINDOW BEATS THE SHAPING. A customer over their threshold still
    gets the night boost. It costs nothing -- those hours are empty -- and
    it turns a 19:00 phone call into something they can work around at
    01:00 themselves. Still reported as over fair use, so nobody concludes
    the rule has stopped working.
  - Per plan, with PER-LINE OVERRIDES: one business line or staff account
    can be exempted, or given its own threshold, without inventing a whole
    new tariff for them.
  - ONE PLACE decides the speed. radiusauth/speeds.py feeds the
    Mikrotik-Rate-Limit written into radreply for the next LOGIN and the
    CoA pushed to a session that is ALREADY UP. Those two can never
    disagree -- a customer whose stored answer and live session differ is
    the hardest support call this platform can generate, because both
    halves look correct on their own screen.
  - A scheduled command (apply_speed_policies) pushes changes to lines
    that are already connected, since a rate limit is otherwise only
    applied at login -- a window opening at 22:00 would be worth nothing
    to everybody already online. It pushes ONLY what changed; without that
    a five-minute cron would re-send an identical limit to every session
    twelve times an hour.
  - "WHY IS THIS LINE SLOW" is answerable on screen. Each service row
    shows what it is running at and why -- shaped, boosted, or boosted
    while over fair use -- and renders NOTHING when the line is simply at
    its plan speed, so it reads as an exception rather than a label on
    every row.
  - Shaping can never reduce a line to 0k. On a Mikrotik rate limit that
    is not "very slow", it is a line that passes no traffic -- a fair-use
    rule must not disconnect anybody.

What's in build 37 — stock receipt attachments never uploaded
--------------------------------------------------------------
  - FIXED: attaching a supplier invoice to a stock receipt did nothing.
    The file was accepted, silently discarded, and answered with 200. No
    file, no error, nothing on screen to say so.
  - TWO separate causes, either of which alone was enough to lose the file.

  1. THE SERIALIZER. The receipt form creates the receipt with a JSON POST
     (the nested line items cannot be expressed in multipart) and then
     PATCHes the file on separately. But the viewset only used the create
     serializer for `create` -- a PATCH landed on StockReceiptSerializer,
     where `attachment` was a SerializerMethodField, which is READ-ONLY.
     DRF drops unknown/read-only input without complaint, so the upload
     was accepted and thrown away. It is now an ordinary writable
     FileField carrying the model's validators, which also means a
     dangerous extension or an oversized scan is now REFUSED with a
     reason instead of vanishing.
  2. NGINX. No client_max_body_size was set anywhere, so both nginx
     layers used the 1 MB default. A scanned A4 invoice is routinely
     2-6 MB, so the request was rejected with a bare 413 before it ever
     reached Django. Now 20m — deliberately HIGHER than the app's own
     15 MB limit, so that an oversized file is answered by Django with a
     sentence saying what the limit is, rather than by nginx with an
     unstyled error page.
     NOTE: the HOST nginx needs the same line by hand — see the deploy
     notes. It is not shipped in this zip.

  - AND IT NO LONGER FAILS SILENTLY. The frontend used to ignore the
    upload's outcome entirely. It now checks the response actually came
    back with an attachment, and if not says so — naming the receipt,
    saying it WAS saved, and giving the reason the file was not attached.
    That distinction matters: the receipt exists by that point, and
    reporting "failed to save receipt" would send somebody off to create
    the whole thing a second time.
  - You can now ATTACH OR REPLACE the invoice on a receipt that already
    exists, from the receipt view. A receipt can outlive a failed upload,
    and re-creating it to fix one missing file is not a reasonable remedy.

What's in build 36 — unreadable dropdowns, and "In service"
------------------------------------------------------------
  - FIXED: every dropdown in the app in DARK MODE. The options were
    white-on-white and only the one row the OS highlighted could be read.
  - The cause is worth writing down because it looks like a theme bug and
    isn't one. An <option> INHERITS its colour from the <select> but has no
    background of its own -- its computed background is transparent, and
    the popup list paints its own surface underneath. Dark mode therefore
    paired near-white inherited text with the browser's light popup.
    `color-scheme: dark` was already set and does NOT fix this: it darkens
    the control itself and the scrollbars, so the CLOSED select looked
    perfectly fine and only the opened list was broken. Options and
    optgroups now set both colours explicitly, as an element rule rather
    than a utility class, so it holds for every dropdown added later too.
  - Group headings are muted with their child options at full contrast, and
    disabled options are muted — so an unavailable choice reads as
    unavailable instead of just being another thing you cannot see.
  - NEW VEHICLE STATE: "In service" — the vehicle is at the workshop right
    now. Filterable alongside OK / Due soon / Overdue.
  - It OVERRIDES the km-derived status, which is the point of it existing.
    A bakkie booked in this morning is still 2,000km past its due mark, so
    the derived answer is "Overdue" — which, to whoever is scanning the
    list deciding what to chase, means nobody has dealt with it. Somebody
    is dealing with it right now.
  - Stored as the DATE it went in, not a flag, because "how long has this
    been off the road" is the question that follows immediately and a
    boolean cannot answer it. The list shows the day count next to the
    badge; eleven days is a different conversation from this morning.
  - LOGGING THE SERVICE BRINGS IT BACK OUT automatically. Without that, a
    vehicle marked in would read "In service" for the rest of its life and
    the state would stop meaning anything inside a month.
  - "Back from workshop" is separate from logging a service, because a
    cancelled booking and a completed service are different events and only
    the second should reset the km countdown.
  - Badge is blue, not amber or red: it is the one row on that list that
    needs no chasing, and sharing a colour with the overdue states would
    put it back in the pile it exists to come out of.

What's in build 35 — ACCESS DEVICE on a service
------------------------------------------------
  - Each service now records WHERE THE CLIENT CONNECTS: the AP, sector, OLT
    or switch, picked from the devices already in Networking, plus an
    optional port/sector/SSID ("Sector B 120°", "PON 1/3", "ether7").
  - Under Edit service, in its own "Access — where the client connects"
    block, deliberately separate from the "Router & shaping" block above it.
  - THOSE TWO ARE NOT THE SAME THING, and keeping them apart is the whole
    point. The Router field is the NAS: where the line terminates and where
    every RADIUS, shaper and blocking action gets pushed. The access device
    is the box the client physically connects to. On a wireless network
    fifty customers spread across six sector radios all terminate on ONE
    core router -- so overloading the existing field would have made "which
    customers does this AP serve" unanswerable, and would have broken
    enforcement the first time somebody pointed it at a radio with no RADIUS
    relationship to the service.
  - NOTHING IS ENFORCED against it. It documents the physical path.
  - THE PAYOFF IS THE REVERSE VIEW, and without it this would be a field
    staff fill in that never pays them back, so they would stop filling it
    in. Networking → a device now lists "Customers connecting through this
    device", WITH THEIR PHONE NUMBERS on the row -- because during an outage
    the next action is always a call, and making somebody open each customer
    to find the number is the difference between a list and a report.
  - The device list carries the count, so the cost of an outage is visible
    before anyone opens anything.
  - The customer's own service table gained a "Connects to" column showing
    the device, its site and the port -- an outage is exactly when nobody
    should have to open five services one at a time to find the tower.
  - Reseller scoping applies: a staff member restricted to one partner does
    not learn another partner's customer names through the Networking page.
  - Terminated lines are left off the list. Phoning somebody whose service
    ended months ago to tell them their tower is down is worse than not
    calling.
  - Decommissioning a device does NOT delete the customer lines that pointed
    at it -- the field just goes blank.
  - Fixed along the way: adding the per-device count annotation silently
    dropped the Devices list's ordering (annotate() introduces a GROUP BY
    and Django stops treating the queryset as ordered), which would have let
    a device appear on two pages of the list or on neither. Ordering is now
    stated explicitly.

What's in build 34 — LEADS (sales phase 1)
-------------------------------------------
  - A LEADS pipeline: New → Contacted → Qualified → Quoted → Won / Lost,
    with a stage strip across the top showing how many deals and how much
    monthly value are sitting at each stage. Clicking a stage filters the
    list, so the strip is the board's real value without the board's
    downsides (no sorting, no searching, everything below the fold hidden).
  - FOLLOW-UPS are the point of the whole thing. Each lead carries a
    next-follow-up date, "Follow up" is a one-click view of what is due, and
    a dashboard tile shows the count. Overdue counts as due rather than
    being its own list -- a separate late list is the one that stops being
    opened.
  - It also counts the leads with NO follow-up date at all. Those are not
    late, they are invisible, which is worse, and nothing else on the screen
    would ever mention them.
  - A LEAD IS NOT A CUSTOMER, and that is deliberate. Most enquiries never
    buy anything; filing them as customers would inflate every count, export
    and dashboard tile with people who never became anything -- and since
    customer deletion goes through an approval request in this platform,
    clearing out two hundred dead enquiries would mean two hundred deletion
    requests. So leads live in their own table, and "Convert to customer"
    creates the Customer once, as NEW (nothing is installed yet), carrying
    the name, contact details, address, reseller and owner across.
  - Converting TWICE does not make two customers. Two people clicking within
    a few seconds of each other is an ordinary Tuesday.
  - LOSING A LEAD REQUIRES A REASON, enforced in the database and not only
    in the form. "No coverage" is first on the list because it is the one
    worth acting on: it is not a sales failure, it is a coverage gap, and
    phase 2 turns those into the case for where the next tower goes.
  - A TIMELINE per lead: calls, emails, meetings and notes, with stage
    changes and the conversion written in automatically. Logging a call can
    set the next follow-up date in the same keystroke, because a rep who has
    just agreed a call-back will record it then or not at all.
  - A NEW PERMISSION SECTION, "Sales / Leads". Its own gate rather than part
    of Customers: a rep working enquiries has no reason to see every
    customer's billing, and the support desk has no reason to see the
    pipeline. Every account with an empty allowed_sections (the default)
    gets it automatically -- only deliberately-restricted staff need it
    ticked on under Configs → Permissions.
  - RESELLER SCOPING applies to the pipeline exactly as it does to the
    customer list: a staff member restricted to one reseller cannot see
    another's prospects. Direct enquiries belong to everybody.
  - Every lead change also lands in build 33's activity log.
  - What is NOT here, on purpose: no coverage check yet (phase 2), no quote
    from a lead (phase 3), no commission, no lead scoring, no email sync.

What's in build 33 — user and customer change log
--------------------------------------------------
  - A CHANGE LOG. Every create, edit and delete on customers, services,
    tariffs, invoices, payments, staff accounts, tickets, sites and devices,
    recorded with WHO did it, WHEN, from WHAT ADDRESS, and the value on both
    sides of each field that moved: "Status: Active → Suspended".
  - SIGN-INS, failed sign-ins and sign-outs, in the same log.
  - Read in two places, because it answers two questions: a HISTORY TAB on
    each customer ("who changed this customer, and what was it before"), and
    Configs → ACTIVITY LOG ("what did this staff member do on Tuesday").
    One table behind both, so they can never disagree.
  - A SESSION LOG on the same History tab: every time that customer's line
    connected and disconnected, with duration, IP, data moved and why it
    ended. This data has existed since day one -- FreeRADIUS has been writing
    it all along -- but it was only readable through Networking, which most
    support staff cannot open. Nothing new is collected; it is the same
    table, asked a customer-shaped question and gated to match who needs the
    answer.
  - Secrets are NEVER recorded. A password change is logged as having
    happened, with no value on either side, and not the hash either. A failed
    sign-in records the username tried and never the password tried -- a
    mistyped password is very often a real password with one character out of
    place.
  - A failed sign-in is filed against the NAME THAT WAS TRIED, not against
    that user. Otherwise somebody guessing at a colleague's account would
    fill that colleague's own history with failures they never made.
  - Scheduled jobs NAME THEMSELVES. A customer cancelled overnight by
    apply_cancellations reads as that job, not as a change nobody made.
  - Deleting a staff account does not delete the record of what they did, and
    deleting a customer does not delete the record of the deletion. Names on
    both sides are snapshots taken at the time, so history never rewrites
    itself when somebody is renamed or removed.
  - The log is READ-ONLY by construction -- there is no write, edit or delete
    endpoint behind it at all, for anyone including Admin. Pruning old rows
    is `manage.py prune_audit_log`, on the server, deliberately out of reach
    of a browser session belonging to somebody the log might be about.
  - Where it starts: from the moment this deploys. There is no way to
    reconstruct earlier edits, and the screens say so rather than showing an
    empty list that reads as "nothing ever happened".
  - Cost, stated plainly: saving a tracked record now costs one extra SELECT
    (to read the previous values to diff against). Noticeable only in bulk
    operations that save hundreds of rows in a loop.

What's in build 32 — Customers submenu
---------------------------------------
  - Usage report, Recently offline and Support Tickets now sit INDENTED UNDER
    Customers in the left-hand nav, instead of as three separate top-level
    entries. The sidebar was thirteen flat items deep; three of them were
    about customers and only read that way if you already knew.
  - The group opens automatically whenever you are on one of its pages, and
    the chevron collapses it. Customers itself is still a link -- clicking the
    word goes to the customer list exactly as before, so nothing that used to
    be one click is now two.
  - Each child keeps its OWN permission gate. Support Tickets is still gated
    on "tickets", not on "customers": nesting it is a visual grouping, not a
    permissions change, and nobody's access widened or narrowed.
  - The case that needed care: somebody with Tickets access but NO Customers
    access. Hiding the group would take away a section they are entitled to;
    showing a "Customers" heading to them would be a lie. So in that case the
    permitted children are promoted back to top level, and they see a plain
    "Support Tickets" entry exactly as they do today.
  - Configs -> Permissions lists Support Tickets directly under Customers now
    too, so the checklist reads in the same order as the sidebar.

What's in build 31
------------------
  - Bad debt DASHBOARD TILE, clicking through to the customer list filtered to
    bad debt.
  - The tile's headline is the COUNT, but its sublabel is the MONEY --
    "3 customers" says far less than "R14,200 written off", and the money is
    what anyone actually reacts to.
  - Counted separately from Cancelled, so a written-off customer and one who
    simply left never blur into one figure.

What's in build 30 — Bad Debt status
-------------------------------------
  - "Bad Debt" is now selectable wherever a customer's status is, and
    filterable on the Customers list. Its own badge colour, not a shade of
    Suspended.
  - Deliberately a separate status, not a flavour of the others. Suspended is
    temporary and reversible by paying; Inactive means they left owing
    nothing; Bad Debt means money we have stopped expecting to collect. Three
    different conversations, so three different labels.
  - Setting it CUTS THEM OFF, exactly as a suspension does -- leaving somebody
    connected after writing off what they owe is the one case where the label
    and the reality disagree most expensively. Setting them back to Active
    restores the lines this took down, same as un-suspending.
  - But restoring a SERVICE by hand does NOT clear the write-off, which is
    where it differs from Suspended. A suspension is purely about
    connectivity, so a live service contradicts it and the badge follows. Bad
    Debt is about money owed: a written-off customer whose line staff have
    turned back on pending a dispute is a coherent state, and silently
    clearing it would erase an accounting decision nobody made here.
  - They are left off the "Recently offline" call list, for the same reason
    suspended customers are: they're offline because we cut them off.

What's in build 29 — staff invites
-----------------------------------
  - Creating a staff account now EMAILS THEM AN INVITE to choose their own
    password. Leave the password field blank and that is what happens.
  - Creating an account used to REQUIRE a password, so the admin invented one
    and then had to get it to the person somehow -- read out over the phone,
    sent in a chat, written on a note. Every one of those is a password chosen
    by the wrong person, sitting somewhere it shouldn't. An invited account is
    created with NO usable password, so it cannot be signed into at all until
    they set one from their own mailbox.
  - "Send invite" on each user row, next to Edit / Send reset link / Suspend,
    to re-send it. Kept separate from "Send reset link" because the two say
    different things to whoever opens them: an invite announces an account and
    gives the username, a reset assumes they already know about it. Same token
    underneath -- the wording is the point.
  - The result is REPORTED, never assumed. A failed send does not undo the
    account, so without saying so the admin would walk away believing an email
    went out while the new person waits for one that never arrives.
  - A password can still be set directly if you want to; the invite path is
    just the default now.

What's in build 28
------------------
  - FIX: build 27's billing end date was UNREACHABLE. Service.end_date is not
    editable anywhere in the platform, so the whole feature was inert -- staff
    could not set a date for it to act on. There is now a "Billing end date"
    field on the service edit form.
  - The form states the boundary and shows the consequence: it names the last
    full day of service under the date you pick, and says the customer will be
    set to Cancelled if it is their only line.
  - The boundary is now explicit: the end date is the first day WITHOUT
    service. Set 31 August and the line stops at 00:00 on the 31st, so their
    last full day is the 30th.
  - The recommended cron moves to 00:01, not 02:30 -- the cut-off and the date
    turning should be the same moment. Running it at 02:30 hands the customer
    two and a half hours they were not sold.

What's in build 27
------------------
  LIVE SESSIONS
  - FIX: Duration read acctsessiontime and IN/OUT read the accounting byte
    counters. FreeRADIUS only writes those on an Interim-Update, and this NAS
    is on interim-update=5m -- so EVERY session showed "0m" and "0.0 MB /
    0.0 MB" for its first five minutes and then jumped.
  - Duration is now computed: now minus start for a live session, start to
    stop for a finished one. Needs nothing from the NAS and is right at every
    instant.
  - IN/OUT prefers the ROUTER's own counters, which are current to the
    second. Opening the page wakes the live reader for that router, the same
    signal the customer pages use. Where no fresh router reading exists yet it
    falls back to the accounting counters and says "(awaiting first update)"
    rather than showing a bare 0.0 MB.

  SITES
  - A site can now serve MULTIPLE partners. It was a single ForeignKey, so a
    tower serving three resellers had to pick one -- and the site list could
    not answer "which sites does this partner have customers on", which is
    the question it exists for.
  - The migration ADDS the new field, COPIES the data, then removes the old
    one. The auto-generated version dropped the old column first, which would
    have thrown away every existing site's partner in silence.
  - Empty means all, the same convention as a router's visible_partners.

  CANCELLED CUSTOMERS
  - New dashboard tile, clicking through to the customer list filtered to
    cancelled. The total is shown with how many went in the last 30 days
    beside it -- the total only ever climbs and says nothing on its own.

  BILLING END DATE NOW DOES SOMETHING
  - Service.end_date was decoration: staff could set it and the date would
    pass with the customer still connected and still billed. On its end date
    the service is now TERMINATED, and a customer whose services have ALL
    ended is set to Cancelled.
  - Terminating goes through .save(), not a bulk update, because the signals
    ARE the work -- RADIUS rewritten to reject, live session dropped, IP
    released, router block list updated. A bulk update would leave a
    cancelled customer online indefinitely.
  - <= not ==, so a cancellation dated Monday still happens if the job did
    not run until Thursday.
  - A customer with NO services is never touched -- mid-signup is not the
    same as finished.
  - CUTS OFF ON the end date, not the day after. Say if you want the other
    way; it is one constant (billing/cancellations.py DUE_FILTER).
  - NEW: manage.py apply_cancellations (--commit, --as-of). Also runs from
    run_recurring_billing, BEFORE invoicing, so somebody leaving today is not
    handed one more invoice on the way out.

What's in build 26
------------------
  - FIX: the Refresh button on Recently offline did NOTHING. It called
    setHours(hours) -- setting state to the value it already held, which React
    discards, so the effect keyed on it never re-ran. Now a counter.
  - It also had no feedback even once fixed: a refresh returning in 40ms looks
    identical to one that did nothing. There is now an "Updated HH:MM:SS"
    stamp that visibly moves, and the button reads "Refreshing…" while in
    flight.
  - The list re-checks itself every 60 seconds, so somebody whose line comes
    back drops off before an agent dials them.
  - A refresh no longer blanks the table. Only the FIRST load shows
    "Loading…" -- with a minute timer running, the old behaviour would have
    wiped the list out from under whoever was working through it.

What's in build 25 — Recently offline (a call list)
----------------------------------------------------
  - New "Offline customers" dashboard tile, clicking through to a Recently
    offline page: who dropped in the last 24 hours and has NOT come back,
    longest down first, with their phone number as a tel: link and a
    pre-written mailto: beside it.
  - Window switch: 6 hours / 24 hours / 3 days / a week.
  - It is a CALL LIST, so the definition is narrower than "not connected":
      * Suspended customers and suspended services are LEFT OUT. They are
        offline because we suspended them; ringing to ask if we can help
        would be asking a question we already know the answer to.
      * Anyone whose line already came back is left out. A two-minute blip is
        not worth a phone call, and a list full of them is a list nobody
        reads.
      * A session that died WITHOUT an Accounting-Stop still counts. A CPE
        that loses power never sends one, so radacct shows it open forever --
        those are the most broken lines of all, and the obvious query misses
        every one.
  - Each row says what happened, in words: "The line dropped — usually a
    fault worth chasing" vs "They disconnected (often the router being
    switched off)" vs "Stopped reporting without disconnecting — usually
    power or a dead CPE". That changes what you say when they answer.
  - Flapping is flagged separately: "Dropped 4 times in this period" is a
    different fault from one clean outage.
  - A local "Done" tick so one agent doesn't ring the same person twice in a
    sitting. Not persisted, and the page says so -- sharing it between agents
    needs a real "who is handling this", which is a bigger thing than a tick.
  - TR now accepts a className, appended rather than replacing its borders.
    Two features have already had to work around it not doing so.

What's in build 24
------------------
  - FIX: the "Blocking tomorrow" tile did nothing when the number was 0. It
    was wired, but gated on count_horizon > 0 -- so with nobody due to be
    blocked, clicking it was silently inert and indistinguishable from broken.
    It now opens whatever the number is.
  - The panel's empty state says why: nobody currently has an invoice overdue
    longer than their blocking period AND a balance worse than their minimum.
    It also points out when auto-suspension is off, since a customer who DID
    qualify would not actually be cut off.
  - "High alert customers" had the same gate and now opens at 0 too. An empty
    filtered list says "nobody qualifies"; a dead tile says nothing.

What's in build 23
------------------
  - FIX: live speed was per-second on the staff page but still stuck on a
    10-second refresh in the CUSTOMER PORTAL. The fast poll went into the
    staff card (CustomerUsageCard) and the portal uses a different component
    (UsagePanel), which never got it -- and the endpoint behind it was
    staff-only, so the portal could not have used it anyway.
  - A signed-in customer can now watch their OWN line per-second, and only
    their own: anything else is a 404, so the endpoint can't be used to find
    out which customer ids exist.
  - ONE switch now governs both doors -- portal and no-login usage link. The
    label is now "Let them see live speed". Signing in is a stronger position
    than holding a link, but the cost to the router is identical, and a
    customer having live figures through one door and not the other is
    impossible to explain to whoever answers the phone.
  - Still off by default, and a customer who is not enabled wakes no router
    through EITHER endpoint.
  - It also SWITCHES ITSELF OFF after 5 minutes with nobody watching. A switch
    only a human can turn off is a switch that stays on -- this one is
    normally flipped to help somebody debug their line for a few minutes, and
    left on it is a customer able to hold a router connection open at will,
    months after anyone remembers enabling it. Turning it on starts the clock,
    so a grant nobody ever uses still lapses.
  - Expiry is evaluated wherever the flag is READ, not by a scheduled sweep:
    correct the moment anyone looks, nothing to schedule, and it cannot be
    defeated by a cron job that quietly stopped running. Staff loading the
    customer page see the true state, never a switch reading On for access
    that has already lapsed.
  - The idle clock is written at most every 30 seconds, not on every one of
    the per-second polls.

What's in build 22 — live bandwidth, on demand
-----------------------------------------------
  poll_live_traffic ran from cron EVERY MINUTE, around the clock, whether or
  not a single person was looking at a single customer -- roughly 1,440
  logins per router per day, nearly all of them for nobody. A router's own log
  made it obvious: our username every minute, forever, against a comparable
  platform's ONE six-second connection in an hour.

  Six seconds an hour is not a background poller. It is a connection opened
  because somebody opened a page, and closed when they left it.

  - network/live_broker.py: one router connection, opened when a staff member
    opens a customer page, closed within seconds of the last one leaving.
    While open it reads once a SECOND instead of once every ten.
  - Only ONE reader per router across the whole worker pool, held by a
    Postgres advisory lock -- without it each gunicorn worker would open its
    own connection.
  - NOT server-sent events. An SSE stream holds a gunicorn worker for its
    whole life and this box runs three SYNC workers, so three people watching
    graphs would have blocked the entire platform. Viewers poll a cheap
    endpoint instead; the router connection lives off the request path.
  - The browser stops polling when the tab is hidden, so a forgotten tab can't
    hold a router connection open all night.
  - Staff toggle per customer: "Live graph on their link". OFF by default. The
    usage link needs no login, so on by default anyone holding a forwarded
    link could keep a router connection open indefinitely.
  - REMOVE the poll_live_traffic crontab line. See the deploy notes.

What's in build 21 — usage by day / week / month / year
--------------------------------------------------------
  Why it needed a new table: radacct holds a CUMULATIVE counter per session
  with no timeline behind it, so a PPPoE session running from the 3rd to the
  20th is ONE row stamped at the 3rd, holding seventeen days of traffic. The
  old monthly figure sidestepped that by counting a session in the month it
  STARTED -- tolerable across a month, useless across a day. Usage is now
  accumulated hour by hour instead, from the deltas sample_session_usage
  already computes for the live-rate figure.

  - New UsageBucket table: bytes per login per clock hour. A day view is 24
    bars, week and month roll up to days, a year to months. One table, four
    views.
  - The rate and the usage figure now come from the SAME measurement, so they
    cannot disagree about how many bytes moved.
  - Day/week/month/year on the customer page, on the customer's own no-login
    usage link, and on a new staff-wide Usage report (Customers section) that
    ranks every customer for a period and shows cap usage.
  - Figures start from when this is deployed. Nothing before it can be
    reconstructed, and the pages SAY so rather than showing an empty chart
    that looks like a customer who used nothing.
  - Chart colours are new --chart-1/--chart-2 tokens, kept separate from the
    --series-* text accents, and validated per mode: lightness band, chroma,
    colourblind separation and contrast all pass in light AND dark. Dark uses
    genuinely different steps, not a flip.

  REQUIRES: sample_session_usage on a cron, every minute. Without it nothing
  accumulates and every chart stays empty. See the deploy notes.

What's in build 20
------------------
  - Tariffs can be DELETED. "Delete tariff" sits bottom-left of the tariff
    edit modal, away from Save, and asks first.
  - It refuses, with a message naming how many and what to do instead, when
    services are on the plan or have a change booked onto it. Service.tariff
    is PROTECT so an unguarded delete was a 500; Service.pending_tariff is
    SET_NULL, which was worse -- deleting a booked-onto plan would have left
    a service with a change DATE and no tariff, the half-a-booking state the
    serializer refuses to let staff create.
  - FIX: the "no speed set" warning from build 17 went into
    frontend/src/pages/admin/TariffsPage.tsx, which NOTHING IMPORTS. The live
    tariff UI is TariffsTab inside ConfigsPage.tsx. The warning never
    rendered. It is now in the right file, and the dead one is deleted so
    nobody walks into it again.

What's in build 19
------------------
  - Changing a tariff is now ONE control with an explicit "Change now" /
    "On a date" choice, instead of a plan dropdown above a separate
    "Schedule a tariff change" box. The old shape read as though the box was
    where tariff changes were made, so the only apparent way to move a
    customer was to book a future date -- there was no visible "do it now".
  - "Change now" cancels any existing booking, so the two can't both be live
    and disagree about which plan the customer is on.
  - The date picker allows TODAY (the backend always did) and its minimum is
    computed from local date, not UTC -- before 02:00 SAST a UTC-derived
    minimum would have offered yesterday and then been rejected on save.

What's in build 18
------------------
  - resync_radius --kick no longer disconnects anyone. It goes through the
    same enforcement path a save does, so a rate limit is pushed to the live
    session as a CoA -- the old version dropped a customer's connection to
    give them a speed they could have had without noticing. It also prints
    the outcome per service and records it, so a failure shows on the service
    rather than only in that terminal.

What's in build 17
------------------
  - radius_doctor now catches a tariff with NO SPEED SET. It couldn't before:
    it compared the rate limit against a value built by the same function, so
    a tariff with empty speed fields produced the same 10 Mbps fallback on
    both sides and reported a cheerful "matches the tariff" while the customer
    ran at a speed nobody chose for them.
  - The tariff form now warns, before you save, that leaving the speeds blank
    does not fail -- it hands everyone on the plan 10240 Kbps regardless of
    what they pay. Internet tariffs only; a voice plan having no speed is
    normal.

What's in build 16 — the RADIUS rework
--------------------------------------
  The problem: RADIUS is only read at login, so a speed change, a suspension
  or a restoration only reached a customer when their session next restarted.
  The only mechanism for restarting it was the RouterOS API, and EVERY failure
  of that call was swallowed into a log line in a background thread after the
  HTTP response had gone out. The screen said Saved whether or not anything
  reached the router. That is why this took weeks to find.

  - RFC 5176 dynamic authorization (CoA + Disconnect, UDP 3799). No new pip
    dependency; the packet builder is stdlib and signs both the Request
    Authenticator and Message-Authenticator, and verifies the reply's
    authenticator so a forged ACK can't be recorded as a success.
  - A SPEED change is now a CoA: the customer's line does NOT drop. Delivering
    an upgrade by cutting someone off was always the wrong shape.
  - A STATUS change is a Disconnect, because suspension and restoration
    re-address the session and a live PPPoE session can't be re-addressed.
  - The RouterOS API is kept as a fallback. It fails for different reasons
    (TCP 8728, API credentials) than CoA does (UDP 3799, shared secret), so
    one covers the other's outage.
  - Every attempt is recorded in radiusauth_radiusaction, including the ones
    where there was correctly nothing to do. A failed push now shows on the
    service row as "Last change didn't reach the router".
  - NEW: manage.py radius_doctor — walks the whole chain (RADIUS rows, NAS
    record, live session, CoA round trip) and names the broken link. --coa
    sends a real packet, re-applying the speed the service already has.
  - The router script now sets /radius incoming accept=yes port=3799 and
    explains why interim-update is load-bearing.

What's in build 15
------------------
  - Dashboard: the High alert customers panel next to the growth chart is
    gone, and the growth chart now runs full width.
  - The High alert tile clicks through to the Customers page filtered to
    exactly those customers, where search, columns, the partner filter and
    bulk-select all work on them. A removable "High alert only" chip shows
    the filter is on.
  - The tile's count and that filtered list share one definition of "high
    alert" (backend/tickets/alerts.py), with a test asserting they agree.

What's in build 14
------------------
  - Customers list: a Public IP column, showing each customer's live address.
    Two lines shows the first plus "+1"; hover for the rest. Hide it from
    Columns like any other.
  - The customer search box now searches EVERY column, not just names and
    addresses: partner, assigned staff, status, type, balance, and each
    customer's public IP and PPPoE username. Typing an IP off the router
    finds the customer holding it.

What's in build 13
------------------
  - FIX: restoring a suspended customer's service now lifts the customer too.
    The badge at the top of the page no longer says Suspended over a service
    the same screen shows as Active. Only the line you restored comes back;
    their other suspended services are left alone.
  - FIX: auto_suspended_with_customer is cleared by any status change made by
    hand. Without that, a service suspended alongside its customer, restored
    manually, then suspended again for non-payment was still carrying the flag
    and got handed its internet back the next time the customer was
    reactivated — the exact case the flag exists to prevent.
  - The service edit screen says, before you save, that Active will also lift
    the customer.
  - check_suspension_enforcement now spells out that --fix resolves the
    contradiction DOWNWARD (it suspends the service and disconnects them),
    and when to set the customer to Active instead.

Everything from build 12 (deploy this if 12 never went out)
-----------------------------------------------------------
  - Invoice PDF matched to the reference layout (0.1pt on rules, 0.5pt on text)
  - Company + bank + logo details on invoices (Configs -> Billing)
  - Preview buttons for invoice / quote / pro forma / statement
  - Serial number + MAC address on stock check-in AND on new product
  - Inventory -> Units tab (searchable, shows which supplier each unit is from)
  - Resell pricing on products, with cost + margin from your receipts
  - Tariff edit button; tariff speeds corrected to Kbps
  - Suspension actually cuts customers off (3 separate causes fixed)
  - Finance: All documents / Quotes / Pro formas / Invoices buttons
  - Bank statement CSV import: FNB preamble, debit/credit columns, SA number
    formats; import modal explains what it needs
  - Searchable customer / supplier pickers
  - PAYSLIPS: per-employee PDF, whole-run PDF, email to the employee.
    Deductions added to payroll (PAYE entered, UIF/SDL calculated) and a
    Payroll settings card for the statutory rates.
  - Dashboard tiles are clickable, each landing on its own filtered list
  - FIX: un-suspending now restores internet without kicking the client off
    the core by hand
  - Tariff can be changed on an existing service, and a change can be
    SCHEDULED for a future date (applied automatically on the day)
  - FIX: a tariff or speed change now reaches live sessions instead of
    waiting for the customer to reconnect
  - resync_radius command, for rate-limit rows still in the old 'M' format

To check what is deployed on the VPS
------------------------------------
  cat /home/ubuntu/isp-platform/BUILD.txt

Post-deploy steps that are NOT automatic
----------------------------------------
  1. Configs -> Billing -> Company details on invoices (upload the logo too)
  2. Inventory -> Products -> Edit: set resell prices
  3. Customers: set each customer's payment reference to what they use on EFTs
  4. Accountant -> Bank Feeds -> Accounts: create the bank account
  5. docker compose exec backend python manage.py check_suspension_enforcement
  6. docker compose exec backend python manage.py normalise_stock_identifiers --dry-run
     (only if you already have serialized stock checked in)
  7. docker compose exec backend python manage.py resync_radius
     (then --commit --kick; fixes rate-limit rows left in the old 'M' format)
  8. Add a daily cron for: manage.py apply_tariff_changes
  9. Accountant -> Payroll -> Payroll settings: CHECK the UIF ceiling and rate
     against the current official figures before running a real payroll, and
     fill in the employer name, address and PAYE/UIF references.
